Most cloud native patterns will, at minimum,
tend to use a combination of network ACLs and security groups.
Let's discuss some general guidelines around applying these controls.
Here are some general guidelines for using network ACLs and security groups.
Know and identify your trusted networks for your source and destination traffic.
Apply ACLs for incoming traffic to all subnets based on trusted networks.
This will typically be VPC to VPC traffic,
on-premise traffic to VPCs,
traffic to subnets which should not be Internet facing.
The number of KCLs should be part of the network design of
the Cloud environment and reflect an organization's policies.
The network ACL will act as a safety net
if instances are deployed with security groups that are
not tight enough or if
private application instances or unintentionally deployed to public subnets.
Apply security groups to instances based on
the role or functionality of that instance or application.
For example, a MySQL database will take connections from application ABC.
The application instances can be assigned
a security group for allowing traffic to the application port and
the database can be assigned a security group allowing traffic
from the Application Security Group on the database port.
Both application and database may be assigned a separate security group,
allowing connections from a management subnet for administration.
For both security groups and network ACLs,
following the principle of least privilege only allows traffic from
specific hosts or IP ranges to specific ports.
The more specific, the better.
Avoid assigning allows all for source IPs like 0.0.0.0/0,
or all for destination ports.
Determine the default security group for a VPC.
Update the security group to not allow any outgoing or incoming traffic.
It should never be used.
However, when an instance is provisioned without a specific security group,
the default group will be assigned.
By now, you should have a decent field for the controls available to
restrict network traffic in a Cloud environment and how they can be applied.